## WIP: The Design Principle of blockchain: An Initiative for the SoK of SoKs

### LUYAO SUNSHINE ZHANG[∗], Primitives Lane, Metaverse


##### The Master said, "virtue is not left to stand alone. He who practices it will have neighbors." —Confucius, Analects


##### truly rich, not in silver and gold, but in virtue and wisdom, which are the true blessings of life.” — Plato, Republic

∗Primitives Lane is a nonprofit research group focused on blockchain and other frontier technologies. We are dedicated


-----

##### Acknowledgments: I am deeply indebted to all the pioneers in Web3 for their inspirations, especially for
 applications of blockchain. The name list is to be added.

 CCS Concepts: • Applied computing → Economics; • Security and privacy → Distributed systems security; • Human-centered computing → Collaborative and social computing systems and tools.

#### 1 INTRODUCTION
 AI per se is not enough to establish trust in the CPSS [Jacovi et al., 2021, Jan et al., 2020], which is the cornerstone of prosperity in every civilized society. Blockchain, also coined as decentralized AI,

 (1) The past: Does blockchain live up to its original design principles as a distributed database? (2) The current: How do the current blockchain literature, industry practices, and global standards
 (3) The future: What are the gaps between the current design of blockchain and the design


-----

#### Sages in both the West and East have been craving an ideal society. In the Book of Rites, one of the Confucian (551–479 B.C.E.) classics [Csikszentmihalyi, 2020], the Great Unity is a Chinese vision
 (429–347 B.C.E.) envisioned an ideal city-state ruled by a philosopher-king of justice in the Republic,


-----

#### 2 THE PAST

 the Analects [Ames and Rosemont Jr, 2010] and Plato’s the Republic [Plato, 2005]. We find the

 Question 1: Does blockchain live up to its promise of decentralization?
 2.0.1 Pros. Yes, blockchain is decentralized. Compared with centralized ledgers, blockchain is not

 2.0.2 Cons. No, blockchain is not decentralized. Sai et al. [2021] provide a taxonomy of blockchain

 Question 2: Does blockchain live up to its promise of immutability? 2.0.3 Pros. Yes, blockchain is immutable. Narayanan et al. [2016] elaborate on the difficulty of

 2.0.4 Cons. No, blockchain is mutable. Hofmann et al. [2017] show that the immutability of

 Question 3: Does blockchain live up to its promise of transparency? 2.0.5 Pros. Yes, blockchain is transparent. [Monrat et al., 2019] explains that all the transactions

 2.0.6 Cons. No, blockchain is not transparent. Sai et al. [2021] demonstrates the centralization


-----

#### Question 4: Does blockchain live up to its promise of security? 2.0.7 Pros. Yes, blockchain is secure. Zhang et al. [2019] address the blockchain security prop
 2.0.8 Cons. No, blockchain is not secure. Lin and Liao [2017] evidence a long list of real attacks

 Question 5: Does blockchain live up to its promise of efficiency? 2.0.9 Pros. Yes, blockchain is efficient. Wang et al. [2019a] analyze how blockchain improves

 2.0.10 Cons. No, blockchain is not efficient. Current major blockchains can only sustain tens of

 3 THE CURRENT

 • Category 1: Privacy and Security. We include literature that answers questions about private
 [2018] for a philosophical symposium on privacy and Bishop [2003] for the computer science insights on security.
 • Category 2: Scalability. We include literature that answers questions related to the scalable
 • Category 3: Decentralization. We include the literature that answers questions related to the
 • Category 4: Applicability. We include literature that answers questions related to the appli • Category 5: Governance and Regulation. We include literature that answers questions related


-----

#### • Category 6: System design. We include literature that answers questions related to designing
 • Category 7: Cross-chain and Interoperability. We include literature that answers questions

 Data and Code Availability: We open source the data and code for replication and future

 4 THE FUTURE

 Case Study 1: How can we elaborate on the design principle of privacy and security for a better society?


-----

#### Case Study 2: How can we elaborate on the design principle of decentralization for a better society?

 Case Study 3: How can we elaborate on the design principle of efficiency for a better society?

 A Call for Collaboration

 REFERENCES

Yousif Abuidris, Rajesh Kumar, and Wang Wenyong. 2019. A survey of blockchain based on e-voting systems. In Proceedings
_of the 2019 2nd International Conference on Blockchain Technology and Applications. 99–104._

blockchain technology. Expert Systems with Applications 194 (2022), 116548.

Qadir, Jon Crowcroft, et al. 2019. Blockchain and the future of the internet: A comprehensive review. arXiv preprint
_arXiv:1904.00733 (2019)._
Ghada Almashaqbeh and Ravital Solomon. 2022. SoK: privacy-preserving computing in the blockchain era. In 2022 IEEE
_7th European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P). IEEE, 124–139._


-----

Nasser Alsalami and Bingsheng Zhang. 2019. SoK: A systematic study of anonymity in cryptocurrencies. In 2019 IEEE
_Conference on Dependable and Secure Computing (DSC). IEEE, 1–9._
Roger T Ames and Henry Rosemont Jr. 2010. The analects of Confucius: A philosophical translation. Ballantine books.

Ledger-and Legacy Systems-based Financial Infrastructures. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2020).

analysis of the Aave protocol on the Ethereum blockchain. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.08401 (2022).

_International conference on principles of security and trust. Springer, 164–186._
Sarah Azouvi and Alexander Hicks. 2019. Sok: Tools for game theoretic models of security for cryptocurrencies. arXiv
_preprint arXiv:1905.08595 (2019)._

In International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 553–578.

of front-running in decentralized finance. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2021).

In Sequences Ii. Springer, 329–334.

[Ledger Technology Interoperability Solution? Distrib. Ledger Technol. (sep 2022). https://doi.org/10.1145/3564532 Just](https://doi.org/10.1145/3564532)

[Past, Present, and Future Trends. ACM Comput. Surv. 54, 8, Article 168 (oct 2021), 41 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3471140](https://doi.org/10.1145/3471140)

distributed ledger technologies. In ICBC 2022: IEEE International Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency. IEEE, 1–16.
Mark Bevir. 2012. Governance: A very short introduction. OUP Oxford.
Steven Bird, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper. 2009. Natural language processing with Python: analyzing text with the natural
_language toolkit. " O’Reilly Media, Inc."._
Matt Bishop. 2003. What is computer security? IEEE Security & Privacy 1, 1 (2003), 67–69.

Research perspectives and challenges for bitcoin and cryptocurrencies. In 2015 IEEE symposium on security and privacy.

Replication in Blockchains based on Repeated Consensus. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.13732 (2021).
Eric B Budish. 2022. The economic limits of Bitcoin and anonymous, decentralized trust on the blockchain. University
_of Chicago, Becker Friedman Institute for Economics Working Paper 83 (2022)._

Cross-border Criminal Investigations and Digital Evidence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.12911 (2022).

tributed payment systems. In International Conference on Applied Cryptography and Network Security. Springer, 311–337.
Panagiotis Chatzigiannis, Foteini Baldimtsi, and Konstantinos Chalkias. 2022. Sok: Blockchain light clients. In International
_Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 615–641._

_2018 IEEE International Conference on Software Quality, Reliability and Security Companion (QRS-C). IEEE, 122–128._

Vulnerabilities, attacks, and defenses. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 53, 3 (2020), 1–43.

models. Journal of Business Venturing Insights 13 (2020), e00151.
Jeremy Clark, Didem Demirag, and Mahsa Moosavi. 2019. SoK: demystifying stablecoins. Communications of the ACM,
_Forthcoming (2019)._

_Available at SSRN 4188661 (2022)._
Lin William Cong, Xi Li, Ke Tang, and Yang Yang. 2022b. Crypto wash trading. Technical Report. National Bureau of

initial evidence from the ethereum ecosystem. Initial Evidence from the Ethereum Ecosystem (July 29, 2022) (2022).
Simon Cousaert, Jiahua Xu, and Toshiko Matsui. 2022. Sok: Yield aggregators in defi. In 2022 IEEE International Conference
_on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency (ICBC). IEEE, 1–14._


-----

Mark Csikszentmihalyi. 2020. Confucius. In The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Summer 2020 ed.), Edward N. Zalta

Thomas K Dasaklis, Fran Casino, and Constantinos Patsakis. 2021. Sok: Blockchain solutions for forensics. In Technology
_Development for Security Practitioners. Springer, 21–40._
Joe Dawson. 2018. Who is that? The study of anonymity and behavior. APS Observer 31 (2018).
In The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2018 ed.), Edward N. Zalta (Ed.).

Deanonymizations. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies 3 (2022), 670–691.

a graduate course. In International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 91–105.

context, state-of-the-art, challenges. In Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and
_Security. 1–13._

on blockchain. In International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 170–189.

market manipulation. In Proceedings of the 3rd ACM Conference on Advances in Financial Technologies. 127–141.

in blockchain system. Journal of Network and Computer Applications 126 (2019), 45–58.
Federico Franzoni and Vanesa Daza. 2022. SoK: Network-Level Attacks on the Bitcoin P2P Network. IEEE Access 10 (2022),

Daniel Benevides da Costa, and Madhusanka Liyanage. 2022. Blockchain for the Metaverse: A Review. arXiv preprint
_arXiv:2203.09738 (2022)._

finance: a qualitative thematic analysis approach. Technology Analysis & Strategic Management (2021), 1–17.
Juan Garay and Aggelos Kiayias. 2020. Sok: A consensus taxonomy in the blockchain era. In Cryptographers’ track at the
_RSA conference. Springer, 284–318._

Bitcoin Mixing Techniques. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2021).
James Grimmelmann. 2019. All smart contracts are ambiguous. JL & Innovation 2 (2019), 1.

blockchain protocols. In International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 201–226.
Stuart Haber and W Scott Stornetta. 1990. How to time-stamp a digital document. In Conference on the Theory and
_Application of Cryptography. Springer, 437–455._
Justin D Harris and Bo Waggoner. 2019. Decentralized and collaborative AI on blockchain. In 2019 IEEE international
_conference on blockchain (Blockchain). IEEE, 368–375._
Campbell R Harvey, Ashwin Ramachandran, and Joey Santoro. 2021. DeFi and the Future of Finance. John Wiley & Sons.

Finance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.11520 (2022).

and benefits of early standardization. In 2017 ITU Kaleidoscope: Challenges for a Data-Driven Society (ITU K). IEEE, 1–8.
Adedoyin A Hussain and Fadi Al-Turjman. 2021. Artificial intelligence and blockchain: A review. Transactions on emerging
_telecommunications technologies 32, 9 (2021), e4268._

et al. 2021. A Review on Blockchain Security Issues and Challenges. In 2021 IEEE 12th Control and System Graduate
_Research Colloquium (ICSGRC). IEEE, 227–232._

causes and goals of human trust in ai. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM conference on fairness, accountability, and
_transparency. 624–635._

explanations. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 34. 13403–13404.
Prasad Jogalekar and Murray Woodside. 2000. Evaluating the scalability of distributed systems. IEEE Transactions on
_parallel and distributed systems 11, 6 (2000), 589–603._

related protocols for cryptocurrencies. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2019).


-----

Weippl. 2021. Sok: Algorithmic incentive manipulation attacks on permissionless pow cryptocurrencies. In International
_Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 507–532._

_arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.01291 (2022)._
Kostis Karantias. 2020. Sok: A taxonomy of cryptocurrency wallets. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2020).
Aggelos Kiayias and Philip Lazos. 2022. SoK: Blockchain Governance. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.07188 (2022).

Cryptocurrencies. In The 16th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security. 1–10.

Richard Kraut. 2022. Plato. In The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2022 ed.), Edward N. Zalta (Ed.). Metaphysics

Stefano Lande and Roberto Zunino. 2018. SoK: unraveling Bitcoin smart contracts. Principles of Security and Trust LNCS

review. Computers in Industry 106 (2019), 111–132.

of Cross-Chain Bridge Hacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.16209 (2022).
Rujia Li, Qin Wang, Qi Wang, David Galindo, and Mark Ryan. 2022. SoK: TEE-assisted Confidential Smart Contract. arXiv
_preprint arXiv:2203.08548 (2022)._

_Future Generation Computer Systems 107 (2020), 841–853._
Iuon-Chang Lin and Tzu-Chun Liao. 2017. A survey of blockchain security issues and challenges. Int. J. Netw. Secur. 19,

year study on artificial intelligence (AI100) 2021 study panel report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.15767 (2022).

blockchains. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2021).

_International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 174–197._

challenges, and opportunities. IEEE Access 7 (2019), 117134–117151.
Arvind Narayanan, Joseph Bonneau, Edward Felten, Andrew Miller, and Steven Goldfeder. 2016. Bitcoin and cryptocurrency
_technologies: a comprehensive introduction. Princeton University Press._
c Plato. 2005. From the republic. In Readings in the economics of the division of labor: The classical tradition. World Scientific,

proposed solutions. IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computing 9, 4 (2019), 1972–1986.

security framework [future directions]. IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine 7, 2 (2018), 18–21.
_arXiv preprint_
_arXiv:2205.13333 (2022)._
Mayank Raikwar, Danilo Gligoroski, and Katina Kralevska. 2019. SoK of used cryptography in blockchain. IEEE Access

_Cryptology ePrint Archive (2022)._

blockchain systems: A systematic literature review. Information Processing & Management 58, 4 (2021), 102584.
Jerome Saltzer and M Frans Kaashoek. 2009. Principles of computer system design: an introduction. Morgan Kaufmann.

technologies. IEEE Security & Privacy 17, 1 (2019), 72–77.

Some Applications, and Challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.12534 (2021).

on artificial intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.06318 (2022).


-----

_2021 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P). IEEE, 120–139._
Habib Tiliouine and Richard J Estes. 2016. The state of social progress of Islamic societies. Op. cit 222 (2016).

technologies and digital currencies. Energy research & social science 44 (2018), 399–410.
Fei-Yue Wang. 2010. The emergence of intelligent enterprises: From CPS to CPSS. IEEE Intelligent Systems 25, 4 (2010), 85–88.
Gang Wang. 2021. SoK: Understanding BFT Consensus in the Age of Blockchains. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2021).
Gang Wang, Zhijie Jerry Shi, Mark Nixon, and Song Han. 2019b. Sok: Sharding on blockchain. In Proceedings of the 1st
_ACM Conference on Advances in Financial Technologies. 41–61._
Qin Wang, Jiangshan Yu, Shiping Chen, and Yang Xiang. 2020. SoK: Diving into DAG-based blockchain systems. arXiv
_preprint arXiv:2012.06128 (2020)._

contracts: architecture, applications, and future trends. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems

Peter Wegner. 1996. Interoperability. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 28, 1 (1996), 285–287.

Decentralized finance (defi). arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.08778 (2021).

market maker (AMM) protocols. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.12732 (2021).

Practice. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.05111 (2022).
Jingfan Yu, Mengqian Zhang, Xi Chen, and Zhixuan Fang. 2022. SoK: Play-to-Earn Projects. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.01000

Kiayias, and William J Knottenbelt. 2021. Sok: Communication across distributed ledgers. In International Conference
_on Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer, 3–36._
Dirk A Zetzsche, Douglas W Arner, and Ross P Buckley. 2020. Decentralized finance. Journal of Financial Regulation 6,

Luyao Zhang, Xinshi Ma, and Yulin Liu. 2022. SoK: Blockchain Decentralization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.04256 (2022).
Luyao Zhang and Xinyu Tian. 2022. On Blockchain We Cooperate: An Evolutionary Game Perspective. arXiv preprint
_arXiv:2212.05357 (2022)._
Rui Zhang, Rui Xue, and Ling Liu. 2019. Security and privacy on blockchain. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 52, 3 (2019),

Dawn Song, and Arthur Gervais. 2022. SoK: Decentralized Finance (DeFi) Incidents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.13035 (2022).
Qiheng Zhou, Huawei Huang, Zibin Zheng, and Jing Bian. 2020. Solutions to scalability of blockchain: A survey. Ieee
_Access 8 (2020), 16440–16455._


-----

|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|

|Col1|Category 1: Privacy and Security|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||

|Col1|Category 2: Scalability|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||

|Col1|Category 3: Decentralization|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||


-----

|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|

|Col1|Category 4: Applicability|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||

|Col1|Category 5: Governance and Regulations|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||

|Col1|Category 6: System Design|
|---|---|
|||
|||

|Col1|Category 7: Cross-chain Interoperability|
|---|---|
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||
|||


-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

-----

